the average entrepreneur has zero
processes to evaluate anything right
they're literally just trying to keep it
going every day yeah and so when like
sales is at best Interruption science no
one woke up and was like you know what I
hope happens today sales reps call me
yeah it's not that you don't add value
as a salesperson you do immense value
it's just you have to understand that
you are interrupting them they are busy
so you better interrupt them with
something valuable because if you didn't
what did you just tell them I don't care
at all about you for yeah for sure which
good luck building that relationship
when your first interaction was all
about you okay thanks everybody watching
or listening live on X LinkedIn YouTube
later reading the blog post we have a
great guest today Lauren paddleford who
we'll dig in with Lauren is now siero at
slice been there coming up on two years
or something like that does that sound
about right no slice yeah I'm in month
six month six oh actually that be pretty
interesting okay I'm gonna add that to
our question list m a new cro goal I
know Lauren just a little bit but enough
over the years to be a Super Fan he's OG
saster he had multiple roles at Shopify
in the startup to scale up days
including owning Shopify plus and the
whole group that took the more
Enterprise I think for a while he might
have really been the only folk person
doing traditional sales at Shopify and
his team I think you were brought in to
do sales in some ways at Shopify right
I'll be in a different way yeah and
always had a lot of interesting views on
what we now call plg what sales should
be doing did the whole Shopify run I
think pre-ipo post IPO for the whole
Enterprise and upm market and sales and
more there then great runs as I think Co
at podium and very senior role at bill
so if you look at the those all very SMB
all not quite maybe Shopify is what we
call vertical SAS I think e-commerce and
now it's slice taking some of those
lessons which I want to dig into on what
might seem to Outsiders as a narrow play
right slice I'm going to misdescribed
because I'm only know it from the
outside vertical sass for pizza but this
is actually one of the I think the
single largest segment in one of the
largest segments of our economy which is
some some of the thing that makes
vertical sass work so now s so Lauren
thanks thank you for joining us I'll ask
some questions but then we can open it
up to AMA for others thank you for
joining us and coming back to saster all
right love being here love what you guys
do and it's a nice to see you again and
yeah excited to excited to talk so help
me understand I almost so for folks I
think a lot of folks will know about
slice a little bit they see IL that's
his name the co on social media we've
seen the ads in the old days with that
pizza guy a lot of stuff they'll think
they know a little bit about slice but
ground us a little bit what does slice
do today how many customers and how does
the business model actually work so
slice serves independent pizzerias
so just on that there are somewhere
between 30 and 40,000 independent pizza
shops in the United States if you
combine Domino's Pizza Hut Papa John's
together there's about 20,000 shops so
independent Pizza is a larger market
than like big
pizza we provide software and services
that help the shop run better gain
insights into their to help the owners
run the shop better help them gain
insights into their into their shop help
them engage their customers through
marketing we sell them pizza boxes so
it's not just software there are also
Services involved in this we do
marketing on behalf of the shops so we
really vertically integrate the shop
we're looking at all the problems that
and jobs to be done that a shop has and
how we can help them do more making
great pizza and do less running the shop
we are helping them run the shop so so
yeah so and so it's the full Erp for the
pizzeria it's essentially essentially I
think a lot of people Miss in in
vertical I'll ask you next if it's if it
is vertical sass as that's somehow
become a trendy term but I think to win
fores a lot of times you need to be the
whole Erp you need to own the whole
operation stack for them to achieve the
ROI they need yeah and that's exactly
right so in those pizzerias is $50
billion a year worth of order flow and
spend yeah so when people are like oh
Pizza can't be that big of a market
that's $50 billion worth of Tam in a
single vertical in the United States
alone got it globally it would be far
larger and so of course you can go
vertical SAS because if you verticalized
the experience if you consume the
vertical there is a huge amount of work
being done and spend and orders in that
vertical and so you can build very large
businesses which is what slice is doing
we're over $100 million in Revenue we're
growing we've got tens of thousands of
customers in the platform and we're
extremely early right we're scraping the
surface of it so yeah vertical SAS is
absolutely play but you really do have
to think about it as how instead of
viewing the shop as like how do I do POS
for the shop yeah which is horizontal
SAS it's how do I solve all problems the
shop has over time and then that creates
a massive Tam opportunity which you can
take advantage yeah there's a classic
story that besser tells when they
invested in toast that basically
everyone passed and they barely did the
deal even though I think it was half
incubated in their offices because they
didn't think it made sense to build the
point of sale themselves they F like you
just can't do it all they're like just
do one little thing the classic Paul
Graham advice do one little thing but I
don't know I don't know that is the
perfect answer in vertical sass today is
it no and it's not that it's I don't
think it's binary like that each
vertical is a little bit different and
what's the surface area you can solve a
pizza shop is a very straightforward
idea it is not rocket science it's not
that complex of a business so you can
chip away at the jobs to be done and
really give them world-class Solutions
because that
entrepreneur is not technically sound
very much they're not out there looking
at software all the time they don't
really do if they have to find the point
solutions for everything they want
Partners this is why you see dominoes be
so
successful is Domino's is vertical SAS
it is a tech company masquerading as a
pizza shop right
it has given their their owners the
franchisees a massive technology stack
and a complete unfair Advantage yep and
as a result Domino's is the most
dominant pizza shop in the world that's
the same idea that's what we're trying
to do except for independence why does
dominoes get a corner on like unfair
advantages we will build all of that
same capability and just hand it to
Independent operators so that they have
the same Advantage but you have that's
and that's from the outside that's the
value
right why can't you have the same
technology stack that Domino's has we
will empower the small The Independents
with that same you can get everything
ordering mobile website Tech the whole
stack for you and then go further right
is Doc why can't you get the order the
orders of magnitude discounts on buying
supplies I can like slice can I didn't
know about that piece you can Source you
do group sourcing for the for all that
piece got it so we're giving we're
selling pizza boxes to shops because we
can lever up thousands of shops volume
and get a discount and give it back to
them we can lever up the marketing
dollars of thousands of shops and apply
it in a more effective way than any
individual shop could and so that's the
verticalization of it it's not just the
software platform although everything is
software enabled it is looking at the
shop and saying how do you give the an
individual independent shop The Leverage
of thousands of shops got it right and
doing that creates a vertical
vertically integrated business that is
highly valuable to the shop owner who's
just trying to make awesome pizza but
also because of the sheer volume of
stuff moving through whether it's orders
or purchasing or whatever is also highly
valuable as a business area that you can
consume and so it's a virtuous cycle
that then also benefits smbs and local
communities and all the amazing things
that come with helping entrepreneurs
versus the Enterprise and I don't know
if it's published and if it's not I'm
not pushing you no you can just pass on
on the question but is the average
pricing that you're able to get for all
these Services you what is that or is it
published or is it less published how
much value are you able to obtain it's
not published but it's aggressive
because again if you go to any vendor
and you're a single shop they're going
to be like hey you what do you want a
hundred of those that's we're not giving
you discounts if we go a slice and I'll
like yes I'll have a million please they
immediately are just like cutting deep
discounts into their model for volume we
just give that back to the shop got it
it is an advantage of looking at it as a
full shop and a full vertical versus
even what you were describing as I think
some horizontal SAS platforms are like
oh we're going to go vertical SAS and
we're going to sell POS just to Pizza
it's yeah that's not exactly vertical
though that is vertical in a
department the true vertical would be
the whole shop and that's what we're
doing yeah I think that's under
discussed I also think I don't know what
you just think on this General when I
step back a little bit and I think about
vertical SAS for smbs which for some
reason is of more interest today
probably when slice started it seemed
goofy today at 100 million it seems
people get it I think if you do the math
it you you almost have to earn at least
10K a year from these very small
businesses to make the math work that's
where toast has gotten to go and I think
if you just sell a POS I don't think you
can make that much right and I don't
think that Tam pencil's out so I feel
like there's like you need to do it all
the merchant the vendors want it all
right the customers but you need almost
need to earn 10K from these small
customers to make the bath pencil out
does that sound about right to you I
think it sounds right this is the
development we've gone through the cycle
where yeah plgs were a thing and ads
were cheap and roas was high and like
you can't do that anymore basically like
very few companies can pull that off
which drove all of the SB economic model
and all and most of the SNB sales models
were built on a plg set of math and it
doesn't exist this way and so you have
to make more money money to justify the
sales process now than you ever had to
do and so you have to look at the
customers and say a lot of what was
driving the first generation of this has
is rapidly commoditizing where the
customers are like I'm no longer paying
for this and everyone's chased each
other to the bottom to commoditize it
and so where is the value curve for the
customers what do the customers actually
value versus what has a what have we
spent a lot of time and effort building
these are now no longer like perfect
overlap they're now the vend diagram is
actually starting to pull apart where a
lot of what tech has built is no longer
the high value curve because we were
good at building it and we made it a
commodity and now we're stuck in what's
the next value curve that generates
enough Revenue to justify the machine
yes are so are you beyond what you've
learned at slice are you jaded on the
point solution do you think it's death
of the point solution or or how do you
come out on what what you're learning
from that I don't think it's
uh mold now and so my hyperbolic you're
leaning into this yeah my my hyperbolic
kind of this or that version of reality
gets crushed over time yeah me too
there's yeah there's far more gray so I
think there are extremely high value
Point
Solutions I think once you find one of
those and you build a big business in it
other people enter the space create a
lot of optionality and it starts to
create commoditization of these high
value spaces yeah if your business is
only hedged to one right you risk the
commod re risk the commoditization curve
if you're early enough in it hey you can
get a long way but I think what we're
seeing now in all businesses including
slice is no single thread especially in
SMB is probably high value enough to be
alone to for you to do alone and create
billions of dollars of return
right yeah that's what I that's what I
see too one one thread isn't going to be
enough right yeah and so it's hey
whether it was starting an online shop
very easily or the payment mechanism for
the shop or the financial services of
the shop or whatever it was like no
single one of those threads could have
built shopa no single like if your POS
only like posos will get commoditized to
zero and basically already is you most
POS companies alone are making all of
their money on the rake of the
transaction and not no one's like the
hardware is now zero the you have to
start yeah toast loses money on Hardware
right toast loses money on Hardware so I
think you have to start looking at other
things in the vertical of that space
you're in and saying hey where else can
we add value that is not really well
done where the shop wants the
integration it's the sum of Parts
becomes a really interesting play you
can make one plus one one thing and two
things equal four and when you're
vertical you can just focus it's just
I'm not building this for restaurants
I'm building it for pizza shops yeah so
even the POS of a pizza shop is not the
same as a posos of the
restaurant because pizza shops are Quick
Service most of the time they operate
differently so you can just really focus
down on the problem set at a level of
depth and care that you would never get
to horizontally because you're trying to
serve So Many Masters right it's like
when there's one master you can just
solve problems and so really come at
that a different
way fundamentally I think slice is in
the business of
trust the shop owners are entrepreneurs
this is not a company for them this is
their identity this is their life this
is their what is happening in that shop
is not abstracted business operations it
is a manifestation of the owners
themselves so the care required to do it
well and to build solutions that will
actually work requires it to go deep you
have to think about it as the whole shop
because they don't think about it as POS
they don't think about it as Ecom they
think about it as their business yeah so
when you show up with a single point
solution and you clearly have not paid
attention to the shop the shop owners
are like you don't understand I don't
trust
you but when you bridge the trust gap of
I only do this for you I am you they
start exposing other value component
areas
that are usually much higher value to
them that you can start to access and
return value on and that really broadens
your opportunity that's where the Tam
becomes like nearly exponential yeah let
me on the Tam thing let me ask you a
question I was thinking and going deep
on the vertical we had at Sanel this
year I had Andrew blei come from clavio
right he's so good and he was he he made
a good challenge which is we talked
about Tam and market share and the fact
that the reason clavia is growing so
quickly to billion is they have north of
50% market share and he said look we
could debate whether clavio is vertical
Tas or not but it's definitely vertical
is right it's focused right he's if you
own a space like you're talking about
you should own the majority market share
that should be your job as leadership
not none of this 10 or 20% stuff and
horizontal stuff right you should own
majority market share and it was a kick
in the ass to me because we used to talk
about this in the old days and then
things got so big for while 2019 through
no one cared what your market share was
as long as you were a unicorn because
they were like 11 unicorns per category
right yep is that a goal do you think
about can we you got 100 million from
pizza shops do you want 60% market share
80% do you think about it that way I
want 100% 100% yeah I don't think it's
ridiculous I don't think it is when you
were taking the approach that we're
taking which is I'm gonna I'm solving
for the whole shop not a component of
the shop yeah and when there's $50
billion rolling through that shop that's
your Tam $50 billion right in one
vertical in one
country it just how do you get to it
what will you have to do what do you
have to build to solve for that Shop's
problem set yeah so I Absolut but I
think there are those verticals I think
Pizza is a really good example of one
which is why join slice is there are
verticals where they want to adopt a
single solution this is why Domino's is
such a good proxy for this is Domino's
is a $6 billion Revenue company off
9,000
stores 9,000 stores yes right now we
have more than 9,000 pizza shops on
slice we're at 100 million our ramp is
massive yeah our opportunity is enormous
and there are 30 to 40,000 Independents
in the United States which means there
is the opportunity to build a very large
business in that narrow space you just
got to start absorbing and doing some of
the jobs and problems that traditionally
SAS has avoided service work because of
margin compression and like all fine
Financial engineering arguments but in
the grand scheme Domino's doesn't trade
like a restaurant trades like a tech
company yeah you gota do it all you got
to do the low margin stuff and the high
margin stuff and the mid margin because
it's valuable to the shop yeah and then
the shops just what you'll get to is
every shop that opens will just open in
your platform
yeah they won't even think about anyone
else because you solved all the problems
it's just like yeah I'm going to instead
you can open a pizzeria and immediately
install the unfair advantage that
Domino's has for your own local
shop yeah I love 100% market share is
the goal yeah what would be the other
goal I just think if you're building
another marketing Suite or if you're if
you're trying to take on a a horizontal
player you can aim for even Salesforce
doesn't have 100% of the of its core
Market right sure and and I think
there's a I do think there's an
opportunity in highly specific
verticalized businesses like slice to
get to very high percentages of it I
think as you come out of that a little
bit and you do something like clavio
which is vertical horizontal a little
bit hey we are email marketing and CRM
for software which is horizontal in a
vertical it's a little bit harder but
even then one of the things we used to
say inside of Shopify was I want 10% of
the Enterprise Ecom market right I want
to make the Enterprise Ecom Market half
the size that it is and own it
all because the predecessors the belief
was y'all did it wrong you tried to do a
thing which was inaccurate because you
didn't have the tech or the ability or
whatever it's like the average
Enterprise deal in Ecom at that time in
history you had Salesforce doing deals
at $8 $900,000 a year that we could do
at 50
and so I was just like why would I chase
them into 8900 I'll just blow them out
of the market and then just own the
whole
Space so I think my point on the 100% is
just I I don't know I like winning and
Bezos is quoted in your margin is my
opportunity it's okay I'm just going to
find out where all of you make money and
just take it away and that I think you
can do in vertical because you can look
at the vertical I can look at Pizza in a
way that no one's going to look at Pizza
yep right and I can do things that no
one's going to be willing to do and this
was also a CH shopy was doing things is
doing things that no one's willing to do
no one's willing to make the bets Toby
was willing to make no one's willing to
make the bets that air is willing to
make because it flies in the face of
General belief on what software markets
are and it's yeah
great and you guys have I it wasn't on
my question list but do you guys have it
is a great it is a great push in
learning do you guys have a gross margin
Target or even at 100 Milli or you let
the chips fall were they may because
when when when you look at toast the
gross margins are quite low but the
multiple still great right Shopify 50%
gross margins right I think that's about
right plus or minus I think toast is in
the 30s right which we wouldn't even
think is a software company but they
needed to do it do you sweat it do you
ignore it as long as the bottom Line's
fine any Meta Meta learnings there we're
early so we're still a startup right
$100 million still a growth startup
company we are very Orient depend on
your perspective but it is good to hear
all right F I think I don't care much
about valuation because I'm always like
cool tell me what your revenue is like
your value is fascinating but do I care
about margin yes as an interesting
component of the story but not as a
driver of the business the driver of the
business is still growth right we have
so much space to grow we want to drive
it profitably right we don't want to we
like I don't want to have to take money
if I don't want to that kind of stuff so
the whole basket of metrics matters but
ultimately the driver of the growth is
you could think about it as orders it's
like there is $30 billion of order flow
moving through independent pizzerias how
much of that is moving through slice
yeah is that the number one kpi how
much yeah Northstar because if you are
consuming the job to be done that is
driving order flow yeah it is cascading
through all of the revenue all the takes
all the profitability that kind of stuff
but if you're not driving that you are
ultimately at some point starting to
decline right because all things Fe are
fed from the growth of the shop itself
and so that has to be our Master got it
with the constraint of hey I could drive
lots of order volume by making
everything free that is a bad strategy
because the company will be bankrupt you
balance it it's a basket of metrics that
are check stepping the other metric
along the way and margin's in the the
basket but it isn't it's like the back
of the basket yeah that's interesting
but we're too early to run the business
on a margin profile when there's so much
growth opportunity that's a good Insight
I'll try to just take five more
questions so if folks have questions
they want to ask throw them into the
chat or the Q&A or whatever we have but
I've got a few more I want to get to I
want to talk about your role as cro but
I just want to ask one quick meta
question to help folks that I think is
obvious but is there any downturn in
your space is there any macro effects is
it okay to go to the board and say
things are because there's a downturn
what are you seeing it slice is there
any
downturns so the shortest answer is
there's no macro downturn in Pizza the
thing I love about pizza is social
fabric yeah we eat it when we're happy
when we're sad we take it to good events
and negative events right it is
everywhere all of the time now it is
also an entrepreneurial Endeavor so you
have cyclical entrepreneurial behavior
is not every pizza shop owner is going
to be great and so you have a natural
kind of every year some of them fail but
every year some of them start so last
year as a fun fact was the top year for
pizza shops growing uh sorry pizza shops
opening ever really now we're digging
into why right it may just be people are
like really excited by pizza again I
don't know right who knows we're
figuring that out but
macroeconomic it is somewhat quote
unquote obession proof downturn proof
because like when things are bad you
order pizza when things are good you
order pizza right funerals Pizza
weddings pizza man I I was saying to the
the crew before we got on I was like
there there is such a
fascinating reality is celon got off of
the Eiffel Tower after singing the very
first thing she did was eat a pizza a
tour to front winner the very first
thing he did at the end of the stage
before he was even off his bike Pizza
Pizza just exists in a way nothing else
exists so it gives us legs so it's hard
to go to a board and argue macro on
Pizza while they're all eating pizza I
think the challenges are more do you
solve the problems do you have an
efficient motion do they trust you are
you engaging them in the right way which
is like the challenge of sales and
marketing and product building
everywhere yeah all right I appreciate
that sometimes that's what I see across
my portfolio in the founders I work with
but if you're too if you're too locked
into this classic D to be to be world
you think the world has ended the last
two years when all your budget went to
AI or disappeared but if you look at
folks tied to the real world toast
clavio Shopify the others serve it
they're just they're all there's no
macro impacts yeah monday.com there's
none right there's none I think there is
a my my belief in this is like the craft
of selling thing is there have been good
times and bad times
forever and there are always companies
that go through in every industry that
seem fine that defy the logic and I
think I've just come to the conclusion
yeah most of the others are just making
excuses figure it out either you didn't
have the product and there the downtime
just showed you that you didn't you
don't have the processes you don't have
the execution capability but I've always
felt like I've always felt as a sales
rep I was always like who's the top
sales rep and I would just watch them
and it didn't matter what the macro was
happening they always smashed their
number and it was like the top reps
always don't they and why how is that
possible if the the team's like the
Market's a disaster it's I'm sorry
they're doing something different go
find that out because if there's one
doing it everyone can do it might sound
crazy but it just is somewhat the truth
and I I think that's where I I would
love to be able to go I think my job is
not to go to the board and make excuses
my job is to go to the board and say hey
here's where we are here's what our math
says here's what we can do here's where
we're going to get to and draw a line
and a story that can help them
understand what we're going to become
but if I show up and I'm like I don't
know the Market's hard I literally would
hope they'd be like yes
and the crap answer like how will you
solve for this problem it's okay that is
my job is to solve for that problem now
luckily I don't really have that problem
but previously I it was like yeah we
find a way you find a way or you realize
that you weren't one of the top three in
the market now it's a hard it's a hard
place to live yeah those are such great
insights right if things are tough one
you may have fallen out of product
Market fit as as a vendor right you may
no longer so you got to be honest there
and either fight for it or give up it's
up to you right but Market doesn't need
number six today in tough categories
right fight for it or give up and then
two it's I've said this before but I'm
gonna use you as a under UND underline
bold italics because this is such a
great cheat if you are going through
tougher times 90% of the time there's
one or two reps still killing it yeah in
the tougher and they're in fact a lot of
times they're doing almost as well as in
the good times like a smidge
like 90% of how they were doing when it
was easy but not even half like they're
doing almost as well and if you're a
leader founder C anyone you've got to be
like go to that moth to light and figure
out what are they doing right and
reproduce that because there's something
that's still working in that top rep
right yeah and most businesses that I've
seen and most sales orgs that I've seen
almost always fall under a power law
which is most of the business is being
driven by a small number of people yeah
and yet the company continues to add
headcount and spread it out and it's
just like stop doing this over index on
the people who actually perform on a
regular because they just know how to
perform stop hoping that more people is
your solution to anything and it's just
hard to believe because we went through
a cycle where the adage was add
headcount at all costs we're going to
grow into it we're going to and it's
just but when you dig into the details
of how the motion works it almost has
that has almost never been true it's
almost always still a power LW 20% of
the Reps do an 80% of the number go
index on those 20% and do you this is my
one thing I'm all over today and I just
curious to get your thoughts then let's
talk about being CR of sliced and let's
open it up for questions before I burn
all the time but do you find that those
especially in today's world those top
20% are product
savants like they know the pizzeria cold
because they can walk into a pizzeria
and talk with Lauren and Jason's Pizza
and they don't just trying to sell you
soft or boxes they walk in and they say
hey Lauren elain's Pizza down the road a
peteza let me tell you what we did with
her it looks pretty similar it's a
little different I can see you're
struggling here or there I've got this
solution it it will return itself in a
week don't worry about that I can Sol
here's what I can do with your and they
they're just these in applying the
solution to the problem I think you
almost have to be to win to be those top
performers maybe you see it differently
though oh no I would say it slightly
differently but same idea the barrier to
entry to success has always in sales has
always been the same thing
work right that's the barrier the
barrier is you got to work your butt off
it was not actually supposed to be easy
for everybody not everybody was supposed
to win not everybody was supposed to
make it not everyone was supposed to get
paid not that was never the case it has
never been the case in sales that that
it was supposed to work out for
everybody sales's greatest filter is
brutal work right it is the greatest
filter it's it's been removed in the
last 15 years from most orgs that filter
because of the internet and we could
spend an entire session on this topic
but what you're describing I wouldn't
call them savants they just work harder
they learn more they want to under
they're more Curious know more they
spend more time in the product they
recognize that they are part of the
product there isn't the product and the
salesperson this is all the product and
so how you talk about it how much how
much you know about the industry how
much you know about the other customers
is part of being a great sales rep all
the great sales reps behave like this
yeah because that's the way it works and
that's what you unlock it's we have made
the middle group of sales reps believe
they know what they're doing because we
fed them leads and we fed them all this
stuff and it was easy for a while and
now that it's hard again the separation
is far more obvious but it's always been
the case that those top reps just
studied more on their own read all of
the books listened to all of each other
they all their friends calls right did
demos over and over again had every
product at their house downloaded onto
their laptops and were dog fooding it on
a regular basis right new shop owners
personally like that's always been true
it's always been true and when people
like they're just they're special
they're not special they worked harder
than you sorry that's always been true
now
some might be like like there might the
few but I've spent my whole career
trying to find this Michael Jordan level
sales rep yeah and what I found is oh
yeah no Michael also shot a thousand
free throws every day true so that's
what I was actually looking for is who's
the kid shooting a thousand free throws
every day yeah and the answer is there's
one of them out of out of every 10,000
yeah I guarantee that person's going to
crush yeah unfortunately we can't hire
just one rep out of every 10,000 humans
that's one challenge but it's the right
point it's good
to entry is work all right so let's use
my and then I do want to make sure we
take a few questions so I don't because
I I love the conversation but tell me
about your role as sier what is it is it
sales and go to market and marketing is
it just sales is it what just tell me
what your teams what you're doing what
what your kpi and goals are yeah so it
is all of go to market so sales
marketing account management customer
support the whole Gambit and most of my
jobs is in the Foxhole with the team
like looking at spreadsheets watching
input values watching output values
right looking at the math drawing trend
lines working out process steps talking
about how we improve the conversation
looking at Decks that we're sending out
deciding where to allocate marketing
funds to drive lead flow because it's a
B2B business so it is a lot
more I I think people see the title and
they're like oh the title is like leader
of team and it's Yeah by doing the stuff
by being in the weeds with everybody and
and that's what I enjoy that's where I
think the magic is the magic like sale
sales and marketing go to market is not
magic it's science and if you don't know
the math and you don't know your trend
line and you don't know progress and you
aren't evaluating multiple components at
the same time and you aren't in those
details how do you make any choices yeah
and so that's my job is to help the
company understand what its potential is
and draw a line that says this is how we
can from a bottom up perspective come
top down and try and pressure test that
and see can you bend that curve but then
really know what the levers are in the
process what really makes differences
when you mess with it versus what might
seem like it so I'll give you the prime
example everyone wants to talk about
Revenue everyone's let's talk about
Revenue I've said this from day one I
fundamentally believe no one wakes up
and does
revenue that's not their job revenue is
an output of what people do
what do people do they make calls they
go to meetings they do presentations
right they write copy they do ads they
write blog posts they don't that is what
they're doing not all of those have the
same levered effect on your outputs yeah
so you have to be very clear what your
levers are so that you're not spending a
whole lot of time tinkering with a thing
that's going to have a 0 z% impact on
anything it might be a important step in
the process but like it that's not the
lever so figure it out lever is like
when I get into a company I just try and
go deep fast is show me all the data
show me all the spreadsheets you're
afraid to show people I want to see them
all I want to ask a bunch of questions
on how it works like I have an engineer
mindset to sales which is I want to know
how it works show me the weird pieces
and the moving parts and all that kind
of stuff and then I want to start
talking about what the levers are right
what are the things that if we put our
finger on it it materially affects an
output
somewhere and can we get good at that
and then can we make process
improvements I think I'm a process
engineer by heart that's the job of a
cro is your a process engineer is like
breaking all the things down to their
component pieces understanding the math
and the metric understanding The
Leverage and then like better better how
do we do it better how do we do it l
incrementally better just over and over
because if you do that across a lot of
different things your outputs start to
change Y and I think that that's 99% of
what I did yeah make everything a little
bit better these are interesting answers
and not
obvious what works going to these
pizzerias what works from a marketing
perspective one thing that usually
doesn't work in my limited experience is
a bunch of email cadences written by an
strr or ra just because Pizzeria Pizza
small businesses don't have General
small businesses aren't in front of
their email all day like it
professionals and folks doing real work
in in in e-commerce store and stores
let's call it let's let's include Pizza
like in the set of things called stores
they you're lucky to if they'll respond
to a text right but they're certainly
not opening up cadences right the
breakup coffee emails maybe they are now
you have a brand and that but I'm just
curious what works what doesn't for
actually getting these busy non-it
buyers how do you just reach them yeah I
don't know yet um because you're so look
we're trying lots of things because
you're describing a very hard problem
set which is totally true entrepreneurs
are busy Enterprises are not right now
what I mean by that is the Enterprise
decision makers are but the people most
sales oror spend time with have nothing
better than do and but this
entrepreneurs are so this is why
building for entrepreneurs is really
hard it's not obvious how you're going
to get them to talk to you so we have
outside sales reps who are just walking
into shops and so I'm a big believer I
learned this at shopi which was create
more value than you take so part of it
is this is the we are in the trust
business if you just show up and jam
product down their throat immediately
they're gonna be like who are you and
why are you in my store like I why why
do I listen to you you're Community is a
thing trust is a thing value is a thing
time you're in a long game with them
especially vertically it's hey you can't
pressure them um but the real thing is
value how do you show them value before
they have to make a choice yeah right
and that's hard and there's a lot of
ways to do it right there's a lot of
community events to go to to there's a
lot of Community Support to provide so
that they start to see you as this shopi
did this exceptionally well it's like
entrepreneurs building for
entrepreneurs um and so it's I'm you I'm
with you like I'm here forever it'll be
fine you don't have to say I'm not
selling you anything I just want to talk
I want to like can we help you in some
way if the answer is no it's okay is
okay to say no to me okay I will it's
okay like someday I'm going to come with
something you're going to be like Ah
that's interesting let's talk about that
but until then I want toate create value
for you anyways can I connect you to
someone else do you want are you curious
about another shop in your town I happen
to know them do you want a connection
over there right these are like the long
it's almost weirdly like longtail
marketing it's like you are planting
seeds for trees that won't grow for
years but you need them in years just
like you need them today and
entrepreneurs don't have time so you
better be there for something valuable
that email better be valuable right it
better tells them teach them help them
connect them if it doesn't why would
they read it the marketing campaign you
do why would they look if you can't
answer these questions you probably
shouldn't do it because they're not
going to look and so I think we're
learning we're running a bunch of
experiments we're learning what this is
because you're right we have
tried what I'll call blasting them and
some of them worked but a lot of them
were like never talk to me again I don't
have time to manage your nonsense it's
like yeah okay so that doesn't work and
so it's like yeah we're going to learn
and you learn by trying a bunch of stuff
but a lot of it I I would say community
is a big one being involved in their
Community creating value without asking
them for stuff right that that could be
content that could be aggregation that
could be information like like we access
lots of things there one of the things
we know is they're very curious they're
entrepreneurs they're very curious about
others right what are they do what is
what are my peers doing or competition
what's the market doing yeah and slice
it's in an interesting marketplace where
it's oh I do you want to know the
aggregate behavior of tens of thousands
of shops you got great yeah we have
great data so data is a an asset you can
use to create trust and create a conduit
to talk that is value to them more than
its value to you so I think we're
learning on how to do this how to really
create trust with our customers that we
can build on over time I love that
insight though I love so many of your
insights it's not that Enterprise sales
is easy it's not easy but do have time
but they have time they're not running
the
pizzeria drinking coffee and they're
buying one new product a year maybe two
and if they want they could evaluate a
100 or they could evaluate zero but
their time is very elastic they have
goals they could get fired but they're
not that busy are they and you're
talking to the owner yeah so busy you're
working 20 hours a day including mine
share right the Enterprise you have the
Enterprise has set up entire
organizations and processes to evaluate
stuff so they're always evaluating stuff
the average entrepreneur has zero
processes to evaluate
anything right they're literally just
trying to keep it going every day yeah
and so when like sales is at best
Interruption science no one woke up and
was like you know what I hope happens
today sales reps call me yes it's not
that you don't have value as a
salesperson you do immense value it's
just you have to understand that you are
interrupting them they are busy so you
better interrupt them with something
valuable because if you didn't what did
you just tell them I don't care at all
about you for yeah for sure which good
luck building that relationship when
your first interaction was all about
you yeah cool listen this is great guys
let's open it up Taylor and Amelia may
we take some questions from the team but
love it yeah thanks so much Lauren we
are getting a lot of comments on some of
your messages as well Denise was saying
how impressed she is with your success
with S&B specifically restaurants Tech
adverse change adverse it can be so hard
so thank you for getting really tactical
about ways to connect with those folks
that definitely answered some great
questions I'm going to get us kicked off
with a question from ish who's not able
to ask so I'll just for them so ish is
asking from a Founder perspective for a
new CR in the first six months what can
they expect what are some kpis they can
expect some metrics they can expect to
see and also what are some red flags
that they should look for with a new cro
okay so I have a couple just like very
specific thoughts there be sure you want
a
cro okay the number of companies that
say they want one but what they actually
want is a VPS sales is wild it's okay as
a Founder just be honest with yourself
what do you really want a cro is
covering multiple departments is that
what you want or do you just want
someone to fix the sales org just be
sure don't overhire for no reason
because both people are going to be
unhappy at that point so that's one but
if a cro they walk into door first if
your C are not deep inside the or very
quickly like just asking questions
learning looking at spreadsheets
understanding the motion and with the
and talking to customers like talking to
customers listening to calls all that
kind of stuff like red flags just
immediately start throwing red flags
because what else is there like
literally what else is there so that's
the first is I I think expect them to go
get into the details you don't manage
any sales or at any size from your
corner office
does not work go deep fast and then what
I was talking about is I think as a
Founder I would be asking questions like
what are our levers you got to give them
time to learn it and watch the process
happen but what are the levers right
what do you see that are the levers
what's the driving metric really input
oriented it's very easy to talk about
fancy vanity metrics right revenue and
stuff like that don't get me wrong
revenue is important but it is an
outcome of a bunch of other things so
I'd be very curious and I'm very curious
when I start a company is like hey show
me the distribution of performance of
all the Reps by input not because it's
like the end all Beall but it tells you
a story it's like how many meetings do
they take a day a week a month what's
the conversion rate between steps in the
sales process so it's oh you make a call
the point of the call is to get to the
meeting the point of the meeting is to
get to a proposal the point proposal is
to get to a deal right in between those
are conversion metrics right how many
calls did it take to get to a meeting
how many meeting did it take to get to a
call the conversion metrics are the most
interesting of the math in that process
because you will see because the binary
number itself is interesting but is
easily skewable meaning you could have a
rep who does 10,000 calls and you're
like oh man that rep's awesome if their
conversion rate is 0% they are not
awesome and you could have a rep who
does 10 calls you're like oh my God they
didn't work that hard what if their
conversion rate is 90% and their and
then the next conversion rate is 90% And
the next conversion rate is 90% that
like those reps might be awesome so it
allows you to neutralize the absolute
number so that's one the other thing is
immediately kill anyone who talks about
averages if they're show up they're like
the average performance oh the average
performance cool that's pulled both
directions by your worst rep and your
best rep so if you have a rep who's
10,000% of number your average means
nothing your median means everything
what is the median rep attainment what
is the median rep performance what is
the median color rate what is the median
it's not that averages aren't
interesting information it's just you
the only way to make an average work is
to cut the outliers out is to cut the
top end and the bottom end out which is
also not telling you that much
information so I just think like medians
are an immediate adjustment to make is
it's a far Cleaner number it has its own
problems but it's a far Cleaner number
than an average because an average is
almost always getting pulled by out
outlier Behavior which is not a good way
to build don't build anything based on
outliers if a cro shows up and is oh we
had run rep who did 5,000 deals last
quarter and so we're going to make the
quot of 5,000
deals start asking a ton of questions
about how that masss out in any logical
way so I really think it becomes how you
want them to go deep you want them to be
in the weeds with the teams listening to
calls W looking at data understanding
the levers and then be able to give that
back to you tell me the story of the
sales or tell me the story of our
marketing spend tell me the story of
conversion rates tell me the story of
these things as a do you understand it
deeply enough to know where we can make
change and where there's
opportunity thank you Moren those are
great answers and thanks for getting in
the specifics I'm going to pull up Paul
next he has some questions about growing
within bural Paul you're up all right
thank you Taylor and thank you Lauren
for being here great conversation um
going back to the vertical saths model
and this idea of owning the entire
operational stack at a very lofty and
admirable goal but as as an early stage
company where resources are limited how
do you think about sequencing the offers
or the products you're going to build
and and bring to Market to get to that
1+ one equals four compounding value
equation yeah problem like you it's
knowing being deep with the customers
and listening to them and asking them
questions right what is the biggest
challenge that you have or the biggest
opportunity or the biggest thing you
want to improve and just asking that
question to hundreds of customers over
time starts to show you the path which
is so in pizza shop what is the first
thing they will talk about
orders I want more orders that makes
sense you're an entrepreneur you want
the the business to grow and so it's
where so for us where did we start
things that affect orders online store
in store point of sale phone all like
we are led by the customers problem set
is the kind of only way I've ever seen
it really work you can lead by what
makes you money I think the challenge
with that sometimes is that can run out
on you it's like eventually it's if it's
not a valuable enough problem Right Toby
had this construct that I've always
loved which was the job of the company
is to make make products that solve
problems for the
customers so that the company can make
money so that it can make products that
solve problems of the customers never
reverse one and two and I think to me
that's the answer is go to your
customers ask them if you could solve
one thing what would you solve they're
going to tell you now if they tell you
something that isn't in your space
that's maybe a challenge but if you're
in the vertical I'm G to in theory over
time I'm going to solve them all cool
start with the biggest one the one
that's going to impact them the most
because it creates value for them and so
for like I said in ours it was we
started in in orders because that's what
they wanted to talk about right they're
like how do we increase orders how do we
make more of them how do we make them
bigger how do we make them more often
and so we're just chipping away at that
set of things and it's great what's
second and it's oh labor yep for sure
hiring people hard and so it's can we
solve any of the labor challenges and
just working through that that
progression but really being
customer-led is what I'd say is like
your early products should solve a very
obvious problem for that customer that
customer agrees is a problem that they
want to solve because usually those are
also the things they're willing to pay
you for thanks Paul for your question
thank you laurren and thank you so much
for joining us we are out of time but
everyone thank you so much for your
questions Jason thanks so much for
leading the great conversation Lauren so
many good tidbits I just love so many
your quote we had throughout so I know
we are excited to continue to share this
and then Lauren we will see you soon and
I think you've inspired a lot of us to
go eat pizza today yeah it's National
Pizza month right National Pizza month
go eat pizza go buy from locals shops
don't buy from go buy from local shop
thank you for having me thank you it's
been a lot of fun much thank you Lauren
really appreciate it thanks guys